---
layout: post
title: Torn between making a web app or a native one? When I want to get things done I make web apps.

excerptlong: I don't mind if you prefer native apps, but "web apps" work best for me.

excerptmini: Web-apps work best for me.

excerpt: I don't mind if you prefer native apps, but "web apps" work best for me. I'm not particularly interested in the "what's the difference between a web-app and a web-site" debate. I know app-like functionality when I see it.

comments: true
category: article
featured: false
---

Native apps are the ones you download to a device and run as a discrete application (hence the name). So-called web-apps perform similar tasks, but run in your browser. But whether a website actually counts as an app is an altogether more contentious issue.

> The boundaries between web-apps and web-sites are blurry. But so are most things we try to define. Arguing about it is nothing more than a distraction.

It's the same old story as with many tech-industry naming conventions. The difference between regular websites and web apps only matters when you're arguing for or against one or the other. Everyone else just gets on with making things. Whether you call it an "app" or a "site" has no impact at all on what your creation actually *does*.

Myself, I find I just *know* which is which. Most websites don't have that instinctive "app feel". Take e-commerce sites, for instance. They often have complex user-login areas that feel app-like. But I would most likely class those as websites.

WordPress is so feature-rich that it could power an app without breaking a sweat. Post some new content using WordPress and you'll encounter many full-blown app characteristics. You need to login; you're accomplishing user-centric tasks; you have your own personalised dashboard. Despite all this, I'd still class the vast majority of WordPress installs as *websites*.

Mercifully, the web-apps I concern myself with don't lie in that grey-area. I'm not saying there isn't an issue here, I'm just kicking it down the path. The fuzziness is someone-else's problem; I've got work to do.

## Why choose one over the other?

One main reason native apps are so popular on iPads and iPhones is that the iOS browsing experience sucks balls. Want to switch back to a tab you were on seconds ago? Sorry, you're going to have to load the page again! Build a native app and you have full control over your users' experience.

Native apps can also tap into device features with more ease than something running in a browser can. Want to access files, sync with the cloud, or authenticate using an external service? All much more straightforward (for the end user) in an app.

It's easy to see the appeal of a native app. But there are pitfalls and gotchas for a tech startup building their first product. When using a real browser on a real computer, the web wins hands-down every time.

## Why not have both?

In most cases, an app will have a browser version and a native app version. This is a sign of a mature product: the users can do what they need to do wherever they feel most comfortable. Where the distinction comes into play is in the early stages of a new venture.

Resources are scarce early on. Budgets and deadlines will be tight. Your (small) team's technical skills will generally fall into a few key competencies. In these cases, you need to make hard decisions, if only for the sake of expediency.

If anything, developing your minimum viable product for every platform available is a staggering waste of resources. Maintaining two (or more) separate codebases will slow you down at the best of times. When you're still working on product/market fit, that slowness can be debilitating.

## This is where a web app can really help you out.

The web just works. Sure, keeping your UX consistent across platforms is a technical pain-in-the-arse when you rely on cutting-edge features. But get it right and your app will run anywhere that can open a website. And that's pretty much every device out there.

As soon as you choose a native platform you're closing off your app to a whole slew of the market. Develop an iOS app, and now no-one on an Android device can use your product. Or anyone on a desktop, or anyone on Windows or Linux or whatever else they might be using.

Make your app as a website and it will run everywhere (if you've done it right).

## How easy is it to publish updates?

It's all well and good releasing Version One of your app, but you *will* need to make updates. And if you're still working towards product/market fit, regular updates are essential. The ability to stay nimble is crucial if you're working to a Lean or Agile methodology.

If you've made a native app, pushing updates is tedious at best. Every time you want to make a change you need to go through the rigmarole of submitting your new code to the App Store. And even once you've passed the App Store code review and approval, that's not the end of the story. You still need your users to download the update (and it's far from certain they'll actually do that at all).

If you're publishing your own web-app, deploying a new update or bugfix is much simpler. Just push your code repository live (and maybe wait for your caches to clear). No outside approval needed. You don't even need your users' permission. With a web-app, the power lies in your own hands.

## Planning for the future and dealing with growth

Good foundation for porting to other platforms later if needed.

## Hiring
More hiring options.


